Automated update of documentation for RSKj node - update-from-rskj-7.1.0-SNAPSHOT (#291)
rsksmart/devportal: rif/lumino/light-client/specs/index.md

---
layout: rsk
title: Light Client
tags: lumino, client, rif
description: "Lumino Light Client design and implementation specifications"
---

In the current implementation of RIF Lumino users must run a full node in order to open off-chain payment channels and make payments. To get mass adoption, we need to allow users and developers to make payments from wallets and dapps, without the need to run a full node.

To achieve that, the implementation of a Light Client is a must. A RIF Lumino Light Client is a piece of software that must be able to:

- Support the full API of the RIF Lumino full node, that means being able to interact with the RIF Lumino network like if it were a full node.
- Run on the client side environment, i.e: browser, mobile/desktop apps, etc.

We have identified two possible ways that a Light Client can be implemented:

> 1. Create different sdks that are able to run into a client environment (ie: node.js sdk, android sdk, ios sdk). Those sdks implements the full RIF Lumino protocol, which means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create different SDKs that are able to run into a client environment (ie: node.js SDK, Android SDK, iOS SDK). These SDKs implement the full RIF Lumino protocol, which means:
```

    - Interact with Lumino smart contracts
    - Implement the Lumino protocol specification. Basically, porting the code of the full node to each client SDK..

    Advantages:

    - There is no need for another node to connect to the network

>     - You don&#39;t need to trust into another node to make off-chain payments
> 
>     Disadvantages:
> 
>     - The Light Client will be &quot;light&quot; only because it will be able to run into a browser or mobile app, but the full protocol and state machine of a full node must be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You don't need to trust into another node to make off-chain payments

    Disadvantages:

    - The Light Client will be "light" only because it will be able to run into a browser or mobile app, but the full protocol and state machine of a full node must be implemented.
```

          - Initialize a state machine
          - Based on the messages received perform the necessary state machine transitions
          - Persist the state machine to the storage
          - Load the state machine from the storage
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
        Signer
      </td>
      <td>
        Component in charge of signing a transaction or a particular data stream. It will interact with the web3 provider.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
        Notifier Manager
      </td>
      <td>
        Component in charge of interacting with the RIF Notifier
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
        Storage Manager
      </td>
      <td>
        This component will be the owner of the underlying storage, providing read and write access to it
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Light client onboarding**

The following diagram describes the process that takes place when a light client registers itself to a Lumino hub.

<div align="center"><img width="100%" src="/assets/img/lumino/lumino-client-onboarding.png" alt=""/></div>

**Open Channel**

> In order to open a channel the Light Client must call the endpoint &quot;light\_channels&quot; using the PUT method (we actually can make the light client send the open channel transaction directly to RSK without passing thru the node, but for the sake of maintain all the logic on the node and keep the light client SDK simpler we decided to left it on the node side).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to open a channel the Light Client must call the endpoint `light\_channels` using the PUT method (we actually can make the light client send the open channel transaction directly to RSK without passing thru the node, but for the sake of maintain all the logic on the node and keep the light client SDK simpler we decided to left it on the node side).
```

It should send a JSON object in the body with the following structure:

<div align="center"><img width="100%" src="/assets/img/lumino/lumino-deposit.png" alt=""/></div>

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Field</th>
      <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
      signed\_approval\_tx
      </td>
      <td>
      Raw transaction for the token approval tx.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
      signed\_deposit\_tx
      </td>
      <td>
      Raw transaction for register the deposit in the token network
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td scope="row">
      total\_deposit
      </td>
      <td>
      Amount to deposit
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Interaction between node and light client during the payment process**

The following diagram describe the logical message interactions required between the light client and a Lumino Hub in order to make a payment.

<div align="center"><img width="100%" src="/assets/img/lumino/lumino-interaction.png" alt=""/></div>

> Next you will see the diagram describing the interaction between the Light Client SDK and the Lumino Hub [THIS DIAGRAM IS A DRAFT VERSION].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you will see the diagram describing the interaction between the Light Client SDK and the Lumino Hub

> Note: The following diagram is a draft version.
```

- The light client will have to make a long polling to the &quot;msg&quot; endpoint using GET method. Everytime the node needs some interaction with the light client it will create a new message in the &quot;MessagesPending&quot; table. This endpoint will retrieve all the messages in this table for the light client.
  - PENDING: we have to remove from the response the messages that were already sent to the light client. We have 2 options here:
    - Delete the record from the table
    - Make a logic delete and change a flag in the record in order to not return thar record anymore.
  - When the light client receives a new message to process it will send the message to the Light Client Service component. This service must:
    - Check if the message is valid
    - Make validations over that message. The SDK must check if the message to process received by the node has sense based in his internal state.
    - If all the validations were fine, the service generate a new message response and send it to the node.
- After the Light Client Service process the message and generate the response to the node, it send it to the &quot;msg&quot; endpoint using the PUT method.

> ## Possible wallets/apps integration

Reviewer 2: This shouldn't be part of the page

Reviewer: Perhaps add links to the DevPortal pages for the wallets we already support?

Reviewer 3: hi @alebanzas @bguiz I removed that section, please let me know if you need more changes.
